# What are Federated Applications?
[Federated applications](/sections/architecture/federated-applications/index.md) are a way to build applications that are built on top of the [Federated Runtime Engine](/sections/architecture/federated-applications/federated-runtime-engine.md). They allow for a more modular and extensible way to build applications and give delivery teams more autonomy over the way they build their applications.

Building a [Federated Application](/sections/architecture/federated-applications/index.md) is a lot like building a web application. You can use any of the tools that you normally use to build a web application, but you can also use the tools that you normally use to build a [Federated Application](/sections/architecture/federated-applications/index.md).

Tools such as [Webpack](), [Babel](), [Rollup]() and [ESLint]() as well as other up and coming bundlers like [Vite]() can all used to build a [Federated Application](/sections/architecture/federated-applications/index.md), but the core difference is that instead of using a web framework directly, you use a [Federated Runtime Engine](). The runtime is responsible for orchestrating the components that make up the application using a concept called Client-Side composition. The components could be built using React, Vue, or any other framework. The runtime doesn't need to know, or care, what framework you are using. All that is required is that your component exposes a way to mount and unmount itself from the DOM which the runtime will then use to render your component.

Instead of a normal single-page-application you might be used to, a [Federated Application](/sections/architecture/federated-applications/index.md) is a web application using is composed of multiple independent components which could be, but don't need to be built by the same team. Applications can be built on top of each other, and the components can be shared between teams. Components can be fetched at runtime from a remote source and mounted in-place to form a single application. This allows for better scalability and changes to one component don't affect other components and components can be deployed independently of each other.


